7
Java is a general-purpose computer programming
language that is concurrent, class-based,
object-oriented,[14] and specifically designed
to have as few implementation dependencies as
possible.

It is intended to let application developers
"write once, run anywhere" (WORA), meaning
that compiled Java code can run on all
platforms that support Java without the
need for recompilation.[16] Java applications
are typically compiled to bytecode that can
run on any Java virtual machine (JVM)
regardless of computer architecture. As of
2016, Java is one of the most popular
programming languages in use, particularly
for client-server web applications, with a
reported 9 million developers.[21] Java was
originally developed by James Gosling at Sun
Microsystems (which has since been acquired
by Oracle Corporation) and released in
1995 as a core component of Sun Microsystems'
Java platform. The language derives much of
its syntax from C and C++, but it has fewer
low-level facilities than either of them.

The original and reference implementation
Java compilers, virtual machines, and class
libraries were originally released by Sun
under proprietary licences. As of May 2007,
in compliance with the specifications of the
Java Community Process, Sun relicensed most
of its Java technologies under the GNU General
Public License. Others have also developed
alternative implementations of these Sun
technologies, such as the GNU Compiler for
Java (bytecode compiler), GNU Classpath
(standard libraries), and IcedTea-Web (browser
plugin for applets).

The latest version is Java 8, which is the
only version currently supported for free
by Oracle, although earlier versions are
supported both by Oracle and other companies
on a commercial basis.

The TIOBE programming language popularity index
 graph from 2002 to 2015. Over the course of a
 decade Java (blue) and C (black) competing for
 the top position.

James Gosling, Mike Sheridan, and Patrick Naughton
initiated the Java language project in June 1991.
Java was originally designed for interactive
television, but it was too advanced for the digital
cable television industry at the time.[23] The
language was initially called Oak after an oak
tree that stood outside Gosling's office. Later
the project went by the name Green and was finally
renamed Java, from Java coffee.[24] Gosling designed
Java with a C/C++-style syntax that system and
application programmers would find familiar.


There were five primary goals in the creation of
the Java language:

It must be "simple, object-oriented, and familiar".
It must be "robust and secure".
It must be "architecture-neutral and portable".
It must execute with "high performance".
It must be "interpreted, threaded, and dynamic".


An applet is placed in an HTML document using
the <applet> HTML element. The applet tag has
three attributes set: code="Hello" specifies
the name of the JApplet class and width="200"
height="200" sets the pixel width and height
of the applet. Applets may also be embedded in
HTML using either the object or embed element,
although support for these elements by web
browsers is inconsistent.[52] However, the applet
tag is deprecated, so the object tag is preferred
where supported.

The host application, typically a Web browser,
instantiates the Hello applet and creates an
AppletContext for the applet. Once the applet
has initialized itself, it is added to the AWT
display hierarchy. The paintComponent() method
is called by the AWT event dispatching thread
whenever the display needs the applet to draw
itself.

Swing is a graphical user interface library
for the Java SE platform. It is possible to
specify a different look and feel through the
pluggable look and feel system of Swing. Clones
of Windows, GTK+ and Motif are supplied by Sun.
Apple also provides an Aqua look and feel for
Mac OS X. Where prior implementations of these
looks and feels may have been considered lacking,
Swing in Java SE 6 addresses this problem by using
more native GUI widget drawing routines of the
underlying platforms.
